CHORUS

Your prayers may be reverent,
But they are in no way
Tolerable to those in power.
The rage you wished for has ruined you. 875

ANTIGONE
Unwept, unloved, unwed,
I am led in misery
Down this final path.
No more can I, unhappy girl,
Behold the sacred eye of the flaming sun. 880
No friend moans in grief
And no tears are wept for my fate.

CREON
Who would end their dying song
If they knew the final note would be their last?
Bring her as fast as you can, and leave her 885
Alone, sealed in that shadowy tomb—as I’ve ordered you to.
She’ll either die right then and there,
Or she’ll live entombed in that room—the decision is hers.
Our hands are clean as far as this girl is concerned.
Her place on this earth is gone. 890

ANTIGONE

O tomb, o bridal chamber, o deep-dug
Everlasting home, the place I go
To join my own, a greatest number of whom
Persephone has welcomed among the dead;
I am the last of them and I will descend most shamefully 895
Before my time on earth can be properly spent.
But when I go, I cherish the thought
That I will go dear to my father, and dear to you,
Mother, and dear to you, my brother.
Since when each of you died I washed you 900
With my own hands, and adorned you, and poured out
Funeral libations—and now, Polyneices,
This is my reward for burying you!
And yet, in the eyes of the wise, I honored you well.
If I were a mother of children, 905
Or if my husband rotted away dead,
I would never have taken on this burden without public support.
But what law am I saying all this for?
If my husband had died, I could’ve found another,
And if I had lost my first child, another man could’ve fathered my second, 910
But with my mother and my father both sealed away in Hades,
I can never have a new brother.

For such a law I honored you above all others,
But to Creon I seemed to act wrongfully
And to be terribly reckless, dear brother! 915
And now he leads me thus by the hands,
Without a marriage bed, without a bridal song, receiving no share
In marriage or the nurture of children,
But in this way, deserted by loved ones, ill-fated,
I come living to the graves of the dead. 920
What holy law did I violate?

Why must I, unhappy girl, still look to the gods?
Who should I call my ally, when pious behavior
Has incurred me the charge of impiety.
But if these things please the gods, 925
After my suffering I will come to know what I have done wrong.
But if my judges are found guilty, may they suffer no more greatly
Than I have suffered at their unjust hands.